# Predicting-the-success-of-bank-telemarketing

* Data cleaning 
* Exploratory Data Analysis 
* Applying machine learning algorithms

A typical interactive marketing strategy that had been used over the years is, telemarketing campaigns where direct marketing is done as it targets a specific customer segment according to the certain goal to be achieved. Telemarketing is when a salesperson telephones customers to sell a product or service. The customers for this purpose are usually selected from a database. Therefore, the success rate of telemarketing depends on the prediction of customers who have a higher probability to be interested and use the product or service to be sold, according to the database.

Machine learning models predictions incorporated with telemarketing process will enhance the product or service purchases, retention rates and even customer experience as it will reduce the number of telephone calls made. Nowadays, banks have started to adopt predictive models too by gaining insights of customer behaviour and classifying customers accordingly, before offering products or services through telemarketing campaigns. It is vital for banks to classify customers well in order to select customers who would respond to the marketing done, thus improving effectiveness, reducing costs, and reducing intrusiveness related to customers that are not interested.

This project was done to identify and predict current customers who would buy the marketed term deposit so that the bank can focus their telemarketing campaigns to such customers. The supervised learning problem will use features and labels to do a binary classification, categorising customers based on the predictions made. This project also discovered the factors that affect the outcome of a bank telemarketing campaign.

The data set used was obtained from UCI Machine Learning Repository.The dataset consists of 45211 instances with 17 features. The data was regarding the direct marketing campaign done to market a long term-deposit, using telephone calls by a Portuguese bank.The dataset had records of customer-related information such as age, job, marital status, education level, if they had credit in default, if they had housing or personal loans, and if the customer ultimately bought the suggested long-term deposit or not. The dataset also consisted of the Telephone campaign related information such as type of contact, the last contacted day and month of the year, the number of days passed after last contact for previous campaign, the telephone call duration, the number of contacts made in the current and previous campaigns and the outcomes of the previous and current campaigns.

The project was done using PYthon. The speed (training time), memory usage, and complexity of the machine learning algorithm were considered to decide which machine learning algorithms to use. Three main algorithms namely Logistic regression, Bernoulli Naïve Bayes, Multinomial Naïve Bayes and two ensemble methods, namely XGBoost and Random Forests were used. Confusion matrix, recall, precision and F1 scores were used for model evaluation purposes.Logistic Regression had the highest F1 score. According to the ROC AUC of all models, XGBoost has the largest area under the curve,0.884 which is slighty higher when compared with Logistic Regression with an area under the curve equal to 0.881.

Cross validation technique was used to assess how well each of the predictive models will perform in real-world situations or on unseen data. According to the cross-validation scores calculated, Logistic Regression recorded the highest value of 0.7871 followed by Multinomial Naïve Bayes with 0.758. So, Logistic regression and XGBoost both showed the overall best performances. Feature importance was checked using Extra Trees Classifier.
